# dme_map

I chose the Medical Equipment Suppliers dataset because after a previous internship working on a project in the DME and Medicare field, I have been really motivated to pursue further projects related to the subject. I went to Data.CMS.gov to find a dataset to use for this project, and thought that this dataset offered a lot of real world applications and posed some interesting questions. I chose the Health Insurance Coverage dataset because it was heavily numeric, which complemented the more categorical nature of the previous dataset, and the numerical data it offered complemented the other dataset well, opening up a new avenue of analysis and a new set of questions.

After completing introductory data analysis, I first learned that there was a lot of missing data in the Medical Equipment Suppliers dataset. The practiceaddress2 and providertypelist columns have significant missingness, but this is okay for our analysis as practiceaddress2 missingness is completely dependent on practiceaddress1, and providertypelist is not necessary for our analysis. There was also missingness in specialitieslist and supplieslist, which are important, but since so few entries were missing comparatively in these columns, I just dropped the missing entries. There was some missingness in Health Insurance Coverage, so I used linear regression to impute the the missing entries (two entries in two columns). Finally for IDA, there are no duplicate entries anywhere in either dataset. 

Exploratory data analysis revealed several interesting trends. My first point of investigation was in the distribution of suppliers offering particular specialities or supplies, whether or not they accept assignment. Allowing users to select a speciality and a supply, I displayed the subsetted suppliers dataframe, containing all entries offering that speciality and that supply. Certain combinations yielded surprising results, with very uneven distributions. For example, Pharmacy and Walkers suppliers rarely accepted assignment. The next point of investigation was the distribution of suppliers across states, conjoining the two datasets. I created counts dictionaries, tracking the number of suppliers in each state in the Medical Equipment Suppliers dataset, and then two more tracking only those who did or didn't accept assignment. I then sorted these down to the timeframe of the Health Insurance Coverage dataset, and added the respective values for each state from each frequency dictionary to this dataset as new columns. I also calculated the ratio of assignment accepting to assignment rejecting suppliers in each state, adding a column for this. Some stats were incredibly imbalanced in this ratio one way or the other, some with almost only assignment accepting suppliers, and vice versa.

For preprocessing, I first dropped missing values from supplieslist and specialitieslist in Medical Equipment Suppliers, and used a linear regression to impute missing values in Health Insurance Coverage. I then remedied the data types in the Health Insurance Coverage dataset, changing percents (__%) to floats and prices ($__) to integers. After this, I needed to mmake the supplieslist and specialitieslist columns more processable. I split each entry from a string into a list, and then used a MultiLevelBinarizer to one-hot encode these lists, creating new columns for each supply and speciality. Finally, after this, I created the state supplier sums columns as mentioned above. 

In terms of streamlit, I have used pages, and used headers on the sidebar to improve page navigation. I also added a custom color theme, and added several interactive features including dropdown menus and a map.
